the opinions expressed in the video you
are about to see are solely those of Bo
test calm and it's test captain today I
get to have some extra special condom on
a 25 Bertram 1963 ma p it's got a pair
of four B Y Series two engines from
Yanmar 180 horsepower but the other
special thing is got it's the first ZT
350 Stern draft that I've seen from the
NMR so let's see if this combination
works well together and just how it
performs the N mark continues to respond
to customer needs environmental impact
and fuel economy requirements and the
new for by2 series is part of a four
engine lineup of tier 2 compliant second
generation electronic controlled diesels
for stern drive and inboard applications
the four by2 is available in 150
horsepower and 180 horsepower models the
original 4b y & 6 py series were
introduced about two years ago and have
been updated and improved to deliver
better operation control and
serviceability one example of very
simple but important change are the
covers over the engines themself now
they're made of rigid metal which you
can safely put your foot and your weight
on now connections fuel lines and
injectors are protected from accidental
damage the four by2 180 is fresh water
cooled with the raw water charge air
cooler another part of the weight
savings and Mars taking advantage of is
a manifold made of heat resistant
plastic similar to what major automobile
makers are using these days the four by2
180 is an electronically controlled
fuel-injected engine which practically
eliminates smoke on startup and the warm
up period that older style engines
needed it also greatly reduces vibration
the N Mars even considered the heat
developed in the engine compartment by
the engine the turbo is now wrapped in
an insulating blanket and has a metal
cover for additional heat protection at
the back of the engine the four by2
series engines have a new two-piece
flywheel for easier serviceability the
belt also has a plastic cover to prevent
accidental entanglement when the engine
is running this engine has a 12-volt 150
amp alternator to recharge the battery
and provide adequate power for on board
electronics EMRs also found weight
savings in using aluminum housings on
the heat exchanger in RO water charged
air cooler
additional savings are
in a corrosion-resistant aluminum ball
pen every ounce saved improves
power-to-weight ratios a place where
again mark historically excels the for
by2 180 is a fully electronic controlled
engine with common-rail technology it's
a sub 2-liter engine at one point nine
nine five liters or 120 one point seven
cubic inches and can utilize fly-by-wire
technology these engines are built in
Europe and shipped worldwide it's
compact size and lightweight 250
kilograms or 551 pounds make it a good
choice for both three power and OEM
applications either inboard or stern
drive this four cylinder in-line engine
is turbocharged and charged air-cool
producing 180 horsepower maximum output
at crankshaft and 137 horsepower
continuous output at the crankshaft I
tested this restored 1963 25-foot moppy
with Gen Mar for be 180 series two
diesel engines made it a twin ZT 350
sterndrive lower units first I tested
the boat with just another person in
myself aboard then because I had a large
crew available i tested with five men on
board to determine if the additional
load would affect performance of the
engine and drive combination with
thighbone board vert room 25 had a top
speed of 43 miles per hour or 37.4 knots
and a burn rate of 19 point one gallons
per hour or seventy 2.3 liters per hour
at best cruising speed she was turning
2250 rpm at twenty-one point four miles
per hour for 18.6 knots burning six
point three gallons per hour or twenty
three point eight liters per hour at
this cruising speed this boat can travel
264 miles on the full tank of fuel these
are terrific fuel consumption numbers
and the best crews provide about double
the range compared to typical gas
engines the four by2 series 180
horsepower Yanmar diesels ran smoothly
the drive shifted smooth as silk without
a sound and the engine drive combination
also worked smoothly
well the Burcham 25 1963 might be proof
she's still a solid right it's a lot of
fun to drive the new 4 B Y series two
engines 180 horsepower apiece
prove that she can still run very well
we got 44 miles an hour and that was
with five people on board and with just
two people on board
those new outdrives ran flawlessly I
believe you'll be happy with both